# QuickSort with Median of Medians
Quick Sort implementation using the median-of-medians pivot selection algorithm.

## Files & Folders
_*main.go*_ - contains driver code (reading files, printing, etc), as well as the quicksort & median of medians implementation.

_*benchmark.go*_ - contains benchmarking functions (not relevant to the actual quicksort implementation, just used for performance evaluation)

_*images/*_ - contains plots generated by the benchmark

_*input/*_ - contains various input files

## How to Run
Note: This requires go version 1.22.9. Currently, this is the version install on the hydra/tesla machines, hence the requirement.


### How to compile
---
To compile the program, just run ` make `. This will compile all of the files used for this.
To remove binary files, run `make clean`.


### How to run quicksort on a specified file
---
```
./bin/main inputFile [-benchmark]
```
Two things to note here. It assumes that the input file contains a single number on each line (newline seperated).
Additionally, the benchmark argument is optional.

If you just want to see the sorted output, you can run the program using: 
```
./bin/main inputFile
```

NOTE: in the code, the r value is defaulted to 7.


### Benchmarking
---
To benchmark performance, i time the amount of time it takes the program to sort the given input for each value of r (3, 5, 7, 9, 11). Then, I create a bar chart displaying the results. This is saved into an HTML file within the `images/` directory.

If you want to evaluate the performance of the program on the given input file (with each value of r): 
```
./bin/main inputFile -benchmark
```

If you want to evaluate the performance of the program in general (with each value of r): 
```
./bin/main -benchmark
```
This will run the program 10 different times with 10 different arrays containing 1,000,000 random elements. It will evaluate each value of r for each run. 
